Throughout recent years, the innovations and developments of cloud computing which have occurred have been staggering both from a business and user perspective and also for the effects these developments have had on the environment. The main reason for this being because of the growing need for people to store meaningful data resulting in many individuals and companies using public, private and hybrid clouds differently ultimately forging trends which, as computing science studies progresses, will keep gaining more attention (Roussey, 2018). 
   One of the developments taking place within cloud computing is multi-cloud strategies. A multi-cloud is simply multiple clouds being utilised simultaneously, most of the time because of the different functionalities offered by the various providers. Some of these different functionalities include the speed of data transfer to and from the cloud, the cost of upkeep in relation to the amount of storage and the different features made accessible by the providers such as applications like Google Docs which allows multiple users to access and edit the same document making it easier to accomplish work within a group (Roussey, 2018). However, some challenges of multi cloud storage which companies may face is that it requires more security as the separate clouds mean a larger target, it can be confusing for people when using multiple clouds for different purposes as they might find them harder to navigate (IDC, 2018). Perhaps one of the biggest cons of multi-cloud is that some providers offer discounts when their services are used in bulk, therefore many small businesses will opt for a single cloud as it may be cheaper and more accessible for them to run (Rouse, 2017). Hybrid clouds are also used which is a form of multi-cloud which combines both private and public clouds together creating a space perfect for companies with specific demands to achieve a specific task (Varghese, Buyya, 2017). Unlike a multi-cloud, this type of cloud is more secure as it is partly private, meaning that only the operator of the cloud can access it. This in turn, in addition to giving a company a more secure environment to store their sensitive information, gives them more control over the running of the cloud. Federated clouds also exist which is when different providers join together to combine many different features into one space. This can be beneficial for users is it would be less confusing to navigate as well as providing more features for a cheaper upkeep cost. It is most notably beneficial for the cloud providers however as it brings them together helping to eradicate the problem of vendor lock-in, which is when a customer becomes dependant on one business for the services (Evans, 2015). This is especially the case for small cloud providers as they may want to collaborate in a federated cloud to expand their horizons. Federated clouds also help prevent legal issues such as a copyright as it lets the businesses work together (Varghese, Buyya, 2017). 
   Another development taking place within cloud computing is commercial clouds such as cloud gaming which allows users to stream video games over the internet where the game isn’t actually stored on your device, it is stored on a remote cloud server (Armstrong, 2012). Many benefits to this include being able to play a multitude of games even with a limited storage capacity on your device because the games aren’t being downloaded onto your system, you’re just streaming them. However, the problem of internet arises as to stream a game off of the cloud, you must have a relatively strong internet connection. This then again creates bandwidth issues meaning people from rural areas may experience a lot of connectivity issues. A workaround to this in which Sony have developed, for their cloud gaming platform PlayStation Now, is to allow users to download games from their cloud which then results in users being able to play these games offline (Moscaritolo, 2018). Another example of a commercial cloud is Netflix which creates an application to allow users to stream TVs and movies which are also stored in a remote cloud. This is a particularly notable case of commercial cloud as Netflix was responsible for paving a whole new system for watching movies and TV shows, a system in which other businesses like blockbuster could not compete with. However, a problem which has occurred in the past with Netflix is security problems and, as previously stated, this is one of the biggest downfalls of a company using private clouds to provide a service (Greene, 2011). 
   Other developments in recent years to cloud computing include a severe increase to cloud storage capacity with the global total storage space approximately increasing from 1120 Exabyte’s in 2017 to around 1450 Exabyte’s in 2018, showing a total increase of 330 Exabyte’s over the year (Statista, 2018). It is estimated that in the next coming years, the storage capacity of clouds could rise as high to around 2250 Exabyte’s in 2021. With this mass increase in storage per annum, businesses may take advantage of the new space. Big businesses storing large of amounts of big data will be able to store much more data sets giving them more information to analyse which, in turn, will provide valuable understandings of areas such as the behaviour of consumers and future investment strategies for monetary gain (Puranik, 2017). Small businesses will also be able to take advantage of this new space by being able to offer more to customers for a lower price therefore providing better deals and outshining the competition ultimately giving themselves more business and obtaining more loyalty off of their customers. 


references:

Benjamin Roussey, (2018). Cloud computing: major trends and developments taking off in 2018. [online] TechGenix. Available at: http://techgenix.com/future-of-cloud-computing/

IDC, (2018). Multicloud is the new normal. [online]. Available at: https://www.cisco.com/c/dam/global/en_uk/solutions/cloud/overview/cloud_business_cloud_advisor_infobrief_eng_FY18Q3.pdf

Blesson Varghese, Rajkumar Buyya, (2017). Next generation cloud computing: new trends and research directions. [online]

Margaret Rouse, (2017). Mulit-cloud strategy. [online] Tech Target. Available at: https://searchcloudcomputing.techtarget.com/definition/multi-cloud-strategy

Simon Evans, (2015). The good, the bad and the ugly of vendor lock in. [online] AMIDO. Available at: https://amido.com/thinking/the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly-of-vendor-lock-in/

John Armstrong, (2012). Enhancing quality of service in cloud computing through novel resource management. [online] Available at: https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/9dd2/72ee7b02e3b8c9356f214426dfa944639e7c.pdf

Angela Moscaritolo, (2018). PS now subscribers can now download games. [online] PC Mag. Available at: https://uk.pcmag.com/news-analysis/117538/ps-now-subscribers-can-now-download-games

Tim Greene, (2011). Netflix deals with cloud security concerns. [online] Network World. Available at: https://www.networkworld.com/article/2181316/cloud-computing/netflix-deals-with-cloud-security-concerns.html

Statista, (2018). Data centre storage capacity worldwide from 2016 to 2021, by segment (in exabytes). [online] Available at: https://www.statista.com/statistics/638593/worldwide-data-center-storage-capacity-cloud-vs-traditional/

Marty Puranik, (2017). 5 cloud computing trends to prepare for in 2018. [online] Network World. Available at: https://www.networkworld.com/article/3233134/cloud-computing/5-cloud-computing-trends-to-prepare-for-in-2018.html

