
Overview

Widespread cloud computing is a fairly new development in the computing industry, it offers a lot to small businesses and individuals. It would be hard to start a small business without the funds to support data storage, and sufficient room on site to keep the data. Additionally, concerning large servers, temperature control is essential, and very expensive. Cloud computing is relevant today because it allows businesses to bypass the need to allocate parts of their space to storing their data and saves them the cost of maintaining it. When servers are not in use, they can be switched off, something physical data centres are unlikely to do out the convenience of accessing data whenever they want.

Efficiency

The use of cloud computing systems can inspire companies to be more environmentally friendly, as it is an easy and beneficial first step, where other energy saving methods would incur a cost to the company. Additionally, through dynamic provisioning only the exact amount of data needed is stored, whereas companies that use their own servers will have to overestimate how much storage they need so that they do not run out. This over-estimation leads to a greatly less efficient system, and creates a net increase to carbon emissions. Data centres have access to the forefront of efficient server technology, and this means that a cloud server is likely to be far energy efficient than the current servers in use (Gangadharan and Murugesan, 2012). Using a cloud network is not only more efficient but also reduces the carbon footprint of the user, through the use of more efficient technology.

Useful

On a person to person basis, less storage intensive devices will be required, allowing the effect on the environment of this storage to be specifically targeted and kept environmentally friendly. People use information all the time, being able to store data on the cloud instead of carrying around a USB drive is not only more secure, it is far more convenient for the individual. Data can be shared to people working in the same team, no matter where they are in the world. Cloud computing can make working on projects with people anywhere much easier, as data can be transferred instantly. The data can be stored on a private cloud network to ensure that only specific people can access the data, and it is kept secure. As a result of this, cloud computing remains relevant and strikes a great appeal to the public audience.

Carbon footprint

Cloud computing is easily available to the public, and this accessibility is an important factor in the relevance today, and for the future of cloud computing. “A public cloud, as its name suggests, is available to the public at large. In this regard, the public can be a consumer or an organization that wants to use cloud services.” (Ruparelia, 2016). It is doubtlessly an industry of great appeal to a global market, businesses and individuals can connect to the cloud through the internet, from practically anywhere in the world. This can of course greatly increase efficiency of data transfer, while simultaneously having a much smaller effect on the environment. It is estimated that the ICT industry supplies around 2% of the global carbon dioxide emissions, equivalent to that of the aviation industry (Gangadharan and Murugesan, 2012). The current environmental effect of the computing industry is of great concern, and cloud computing is of appeal, as it can help to reduce these emissions greatly. Small businesses found that using cloud services reduced their carbon emissions by up to 90%, and larger businesses as high as 60% (Gangadharan and Murugesan, 2012). If cloud networking becomes the primary system in use, the effect on the environment would be massive.

Summation

Overall it is clear that cloud computing is currently a very relevant development concerning the effects of the computing industry on the environment. A cloud network reduces carbon emissions by using more efficient servers run by an external data centre. These servers are able to be used at peak efficiency as they can be turned off or used for another purpose when no longer needed by one particular user. Businesses are interested in cloud computing because it saves the cooling and maintenance costs, while increasing work efficiency. Teams can work on the same project from anywhere in the world, and data can be shared with clients instantly. Anyone can use a cloud network, as it as very accessible, and they can be kept limited to specific users. A private cloud can keep data safe, or if some data needs to be public, hybrid clouds are also available. Cloud computing suits the needs of practically any end-user, is easily accessible, reduces carbon emissions and saves money, making it a very appealing system for business and individual alike.
